>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any big takeaways
from this, anything new that you learned?
>> Speaker 2: No, the whole thing was kind
of new to me, the whole traverse thing.
And when you first put up the picture
of the first traversal or
whatever, I did not at all
get how it was gonna work.
So the whole thing was new to me.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so
what took you from, I had no idea how it
was going to work,
to okay maybe I have some inkling?
>> Speaker 2: It was when you
were talking about it and
I guess just walking
through it the first time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so like
the pseudocode-
>> Speaker 2: Yeah
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Component.
Cool, anyone else have that same reaction?
You're like, god I have no idea,
how to even approach this.
No everyone's like,
that's it this is gonna be easy.
>> Speaker 3: I think one takeaway is
the trees are really made for recursion,
right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, exactly, so when
we think of recursive data structures,
we think of trees, for sure.
>> Speaker 4: How they're super nice,
and neat.
And I guess it also makes sense that you
have three different ways you can traverse
it cuz you have at any point
in time a little triangle.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There's
more than three ways, but yeah.
>> Speaker 4: But yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, we'll get there.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So many ways.
>> Speaker 3: I know that the recursion
make easy life, and
how to catch up the tree that
is left right self, I get.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so you
are saying that recreation makes your life
easier and
then the concept of the self left right.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Helps
you kind of see the patern?
>> Speaker 3: Right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then it
applies like, literally to the code.
And, I don't know, I don't feel like
recursion always clicks for me like that.
With a pattern, your're like,
that pattern makes sense to me 100%
where I can really spell it out.
So, I really like that about it too, cool.
So what have we done so far with our tree?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
here's our binary search tree.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What have we done?
What's the first thing we did today?
>> Speaker 2: Insert?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yup,
so we built it, we learned
how to insert things into our binary
search tree, in the correct order, right?
That's the whole point of a binary
search tree is there's an order there.
What else did we do?
>> Speaker 5: We learned how to check for
a value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
we did contains, so we searched for
specific values.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What else?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Nothing else?
>> Speaker 2: We learned
different ways to traverse.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
we also traversed, totally.
So we built it, we peeked around.
Let's think about, for
a moment time complexity for
the operations that we've done so far.
So we talked about insert.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do you think is,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sort of the average
case insertion if you had just average
in your minds based on this picture?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Quick and
dirty average.
>> Speaker 3: Login?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Log in,
why do we think it's login?
>> Speaker 3: That's the height.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
login is gonna be the height of the tree.
And it's also because we're gonna be
splitting our problem in half every
single time.
So anything where we split
the problem in half.
Just like we did the phone book example,
that's a binary search,
where we split it in half and
throw the half of it away.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
when we have a tree like this and
we are splitting the problem in half,
we can expect it to be login.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I
see some furrowed brows.
>> Speaker 4: Is that for
contains or for searching?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: For insertion.
>> Speaker 4: Insertion.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What about for
contains slash a search, right?
So search is contains,
it's the same thing.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
let's say the we needed to search for 18.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: First of all how
many nodes do we have, we can count?
So we have 4, 8, 12, 14,
we have 15 nodes here.
How many steps would it take for
us to find 18?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we start here,
so one, two, well, one,
two, three, and then four.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
probably like four steps.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
and then if we doubled that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: How would that change?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Or
what if we just cut it in half?
>> Speaker 4: You went to 15?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And we just had this,
yeah, we just had this one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So then,
we only have three one, two, three.
What if we cut it in half again?
Then it's just two steps, right one, two.
So as the problem grows,
the operations grow by how much?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Half, right?
Does that make sense?
So when we have 15 or so, it's gonna
take us 4 times to get to 18,
when we cut it in half, right?
So we throw away this left side,
it's gonna take us three.
And we throw away the other half,
it'll just take us two.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
that's logarithmic, there's two.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: How do you know two that
again?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Login, so O of login.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
O parentheses login.
Not O of N login which is different.
What would make this N login?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Like what makes
an operation N login versus login?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
every time you cut it in half,
you have to also do a linear operation.
>> Speaker 5: Right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
multiply it times n, yeah.
To like merge sort or
quick sort where we have
to iterate through the entire thing.
So if you were traversing a tree and
transforming it?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
what is a tree traversal then?
just visiting every node?
So say this tree is 15.
How many operations do we have
to take to visit every node?
>> Speaker 2: 15, right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: 15,
what about if there's 30?
>> Speaker 2: It's always gonna be linear,
right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Linear, exactly, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so something
that could make it more than linear is if
whatever function that you're
calling inside of this tree.
Does something also that is linear,
so if your callback function
has maybe a loop in it that loops
through n times, the same n, right?
So n meaning the number of nodes,
that would make it what?
>> Speaker 5: N login.
n times n.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Times n, okay.
Which is quadratic, yep.